- Memory management vulnerabilities
are a very special class
in that they're only exposed in certain languages
and certain situations.
The most common and the one that I will focus on
is the buffer overflow attack.
I want to start by providing a clear indication
of how bad buffer overflow vulnerabilities are.
There are several yearly contests
that result in large sums of prize money
for security researchers that compromise systems,
often called rooting.
Some of the most profitable vulnerabilities
are called Zero Days
are a result of buffer overflow attacks.
These attacks are catastrophic
and can be expensive to say the least
and unfortunately are hard for those developers
who deal with higher level languages
to see or understand.
In higher level languages, for instance,
we seldom deal with raw memory allocations.
Even in languages like Go, Java and C#,
where we have pointers,
we're not usually able to manipulate raw memory
without dipping into unsafe code.
As such, these languages are usually safe from these errors.
There are lessons to be learned, however,
from those of us that use these higher level languages.
So, I encourage you to to listen
and find parallels in how you deal with data structures
in your code.
In lower level languages like C for instance,
you are dealing with arrays and pointers to them.
And ultimately the memory allocated to them.
As such, you are now fully responsible
for checking the bounds of the array
and here enters the problem.
Let's say, for instance, you declare two variables.
The first is a character array
of say 10 bytes
and the second is an unsigned integer of say four bytes.
They happen to be next to each other in memory.
Now, you have a program
that asks for input and stores that value
into the first array.
You expect no more than nine characters
in your response, however, you don't check the length
of the input, you just write it to the variable.
If an attacker writes a value
that is say 13 characters in size,
it will overwrite the four bytes of the integer
with the last one being a stop byte.
Now, if your program then accesses the unsigned integer,
and the attacker has done his or her homework,
the program may execute other instruction sets
often at the command of the attacker
through user input or exception flows.
Now, some exploitations can impact the stack,
others can impact the heap
but both can be leveraged in specific cases
and neither is pretty.
There are a couple of mitigations
that you can put in place
but really there's only one fix.
One of the mitigations
is to randomize your memory allocations
so that the likelihood of memory spaces touching
is decreased but this is nowhere near perfect.
The same can be said for various protections
for pointers, executable space or stack alteration.
Again, while this protection strategy can be good mitigation
for legacy code, it is not foolproof.
The best way to protect against these attacks
is actually a three-fold approach.
The first is to use when available native protections
in your development language.
In addition, you should validate your inputs
to ensure they're within the acceptable bounds
and they cannot overflow the buffer.
Finally, leveraging a good testing strategy.
One thing you should note
is that even if you aren't writing code
in assembly, C, C++ or Fortran,
you may be leveraging components that are.
You need to consider this whenever you write code
that input and boundary checks are always important.